---
#layout: page
title: "Homework 2"
categories: homeworks
#permalink: /homeworks/applications/
---
<h3>Researches about theory</h3>

- [2_R]({% post_url 2021-10-10-2_R %})

Describe the most common configuration of data repositories in the real world and corporate environment. Concepts such as Operational or Transactional systems (OLTP), Data Warehouse DW, Data Marts, Analytical and statistical systems (OLAP), etc. Try to draw a conceptual picture of how all these components may work together and how the flow of data and information is processed to extract useful knowledge from raw data.

- [3_R]({% post_url 2021-10-09-3_R %})

Show how we can obtain an online algo for the arithmetic mean and explain the various possible reasons why it is preferable to the "naive" algo based on the definition.

<h3>Applications / Practice</h3>

- [2_A]({% post_url 2021-10-09-2_A %})

Create - in both languages C# and VB.NET - a demonstrative program which computes the online arithmetic mean (if it's a numeric variable) and your own algo to compute the distribution for a discrete variable and for a continuous variable (can use values simulated with RANDOM object).

- [3_A]({% post_url 2021-10-09-3_A %})

Create an object providing a rectangular area which can be moved and resized using the mouse. This area will hold our future charts and graphics.

<h3>Researches about applications</h3>

- [1_RA]({% post_url 2021-10-10-1_RA %})

Understand how the floating point representation works and describe systematically (possibly using categories) all the possible problems that can happen. Try to classify the various issues and limitations (representation, comparison, rounding, propagation, approximation, loss of significance, cancellation, etc.) and provide simple examples for each of the categories you have identified.
