---
layout: page
title: "7_RA"
categories: researches
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
  MathJax.Hub.Config({
    extensions: [
      "MathMenu.js",
      "MathZoom.js",
      "AssistiveMML.js",
      "a11y/accessibility-menu.js"
    ],
    jax: ["input/TeX", "output/CommonHTML"],
    TeX: {
      extensions: [
        "AMSmath.js",
        "AMSsymbols.js",
        "noErrors.js",
        "noUndefined.js",
      ]
    }
  });
</script>
<script type="text/javascript" async
  src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
</script>
<b>Do a research about the random walk process and its properties. Compare your finding with your applications drawing your personal conclusions. Explain based on your exercise the beaviour of the distribution of the stochastic process (check out "Donsker's invariance principle"). What are, in particular, its mean and variance at time n ?</b>

From “Introduction to Probability and Statistics” – K.C. Border, Winter 2017 (Caltech, Department of Mathematics)

“Let $$X_1, . . . , X_t, . . .$$ be a sequence of independent Rademacher random variables, 

$$Xt = \cases{1 with probability 1/2}{−1 with probability 1/2}$$

So

 $$\bf{E} X_t = 0$$, and $$\bf{Var} X_t = 1$$ (t = 1, 2, . . .)

(Imagine a game played between Hetty and Taylor, in which a fair coin is tossed repeatedly. When Heads occurs, Hetty wins a dollar from Taylor, and when Tails occurs Taylor wins a dollar from Hetty. Then Xt is the change in Hetty’s net winnings on the t th coin toss.)

The index t indicates a point in time. Feller uses the term epoch to denote a particular moment t, and reserves the use of the word “time” to refer to a duration or interval of time, rather than a point in time, and I shall adhere to his convention. The set of epochs is the set 

Z+ = {0, 1, 2, . . . }

 of nonnegative integers. The epoch 0 is the moment before any coin toss. 

For each t, define the running sums 

St = X1 + • • • + Xt. 

For convenience, we define S0 = 0. 

(The random variable St is Hetty’s total net winnings at epoch t, that is, after t coin tosses.)

 It follows that for each St, 

E St = 0 and Var St = t. 

The sequence of random variables S0, . . . , St, . . . , t ∈ Z+ is a discrete-time stochastic process known as the simple random walk on the integers. It is both a martingale (E(St+s  | St) = St) and a stationary Markov chain (the distribution of St+s  | St = kt, . . . , S1 = k1 depends only on the value kt).”

So a random walk is a process where at each step we increment (or do other kinds of computations on) a counter using a random value.

This is what has been done for application 9_A_2. Here we had to compute sample paths where at each step we perform a “jump” given by either a Rademacher or a Normal random variable. This was an example of a random walk. One particularity of these sample paths is that, no matter how long they are, they always keep approximately the same shape, and by consequence also the same distribution, with rescaled values. Also, executing the program many times I’ve noticed that the values of mean and variance at the n-th step remain close to a certain value, which in the case of mean is the mean itself (so, 0), and in the case of variance it is the number of steps (so, n).



