---
layout: page
title: "5_A"
categories: applications
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
5_A. Compute - in both languages C# and VB.NET (and optionally in js) - a frequency distribution of the meaningful words from any text file and create a personal graphical representation of the corresponding "word cloud" (in case, can use animation if you wish), keeping into account the frequencies of the words.

This program is composed by:

- a button "Get File", which allows the user to select a text file
- a button "button1" which starts the computation of the frequency distribution of the word contained in the text file

To look for meaningful words, we create a list of words taken from a text file. This text file has been put in the "bin\Debug" folder, where the executable file is, and the name of this file is hardcoded in the code. During the startup of the program, the file content is extracted with a StreamReader, and each word (one per line) is put in a list of strings called "wordlist".

In the button1_Click event handler we extract the words contained in the file passed as input. We do so by reading the file line by line, and for each line we apply a function called "remove_NonAlphaorSpace_Characters". This function in essence takes a reference to a string and modifies the string by exchanging every character that is not a letter or a white space with a white space. After that, we can extract each word by using the "Split()" function, which puts every word in a list. Iterating through this list (and ignoring eventual empty strings) we compute the univariate distribution for the words in the wordlist by checking if the word that has been extracted with the Split() function is in the wordlist. The values for the count and the relative frequency are represented with a class called FrequenciesForValue, which is defined this way:

{% highlight csharp %}
class FrequenciesForValue
{
    public int count = 1;
    public float relativeFrequency;
    public float percentage;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Frequencies for each word are stored in a dictionary called "word_count", where to each word is associated a FrequenciesForValue object.

After this, we represent the frequency of the 10 most frequent words with a pie chart. To do this, the program has a function to extract the element with the highest value of the count from the word_count dictionary.

With FillRectangle and DrawString functions we create an index to show which color corresponds to which word in the pie chart. To draw the pie chart instead we use the DrawPie function, where the span of each slice is calculated using a previously calculated marginal frequency of the word.

Here I put the link to download the .zip file containing the code plus a video where I show the execution of the program:

[link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dXhmja0lK5kL-eE9iKFWFTf5KhdPT3zc/view?usp=sharing)