---
layout: page
title: "6_A"
categories: applications
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
<b>6_A. Prepare separately the following charts: 1) Scatterplot, 2) Histogram/Column chart \[in the histogram, within each class interval, draw also a vertical colored line where lies the true mean of the observations falling in that class\] and 3) Contingency table, using the graphics object and its methods (Drawstring(), MeasureString(), DrawLine(), etc).
Use them to represent 2 numerical variables that you select from a CSV file. In particular, in the same picture box, you will make at least 2 separate charts: 1 dynamic rectangle will contain the contingency table, and 1 rectangle (chart) will contain the scatterplot, with the histograms/column charts and rug plots drawn respectively near the two axis (and oriented accordingly).</b>

The steps to make this program are:

-	Get some lists of values (in this case ages, heights and weights) from a CSV file
-	Find the minimum, the maximum and the range of the values to represent
-	Find the bivariate distribution for two variables
-	Draw the contingency table and the scatter plot / rug plot / histogram

While extracting the values from the CSV file and putting each value in the appropriate list (one for ages, one for heights and one for weights) we calculate the minimum and the maximum values got for each variable, and from them we get the range (max – min). Then, after defining the intervals for the two variables height and weight, we calculate the bivariate frequency distribution and from this we get the data to put in the contingency table. The function to calculate the bivariate frequency distribution is the same used in previous homeworks, and it returns a Dictionary where the indexes are tuples of two intervals, which represent joint frequency distributions, and the values are integers representing the associated count. After this, we calculate the univariate distribution for height intervals and use those frequencies to draw the histogram.

All these drawings are done inside two separate Rectangle object, which are the viewports. In fact to calculate the coordinate where to make the drawings we rely on the values associated to each viewport, so that the position where to draw the values for the scatter plot, rug plot and histogram are proportional to the size of the viewport. For example, this is the function that calculates the height (so, the y coordinate) of one bar of the histogram:

{% highlight csharp %}
public int Y_Histogram_Viewport(int tot, int count, Rectangle Viewport)
{
    // histogram bar height = (viewport height / total number of values) * count value for that interval
    return Viewport.Top + Viewport.Height - (Viewport.Height / tot) * count;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Here I put the link to download the .zip file containing the code plus a video where I show the execution of the program:

[link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15hAZYUChDYnwW6gEMlB-Pyk0NPRm4j2g/view?usp=sharing)
