---
layout: page
title: "2_RA"
categories: researches
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
2_RA. Do a review about charts useful for statistics and data presentation. What is the chart type that impressed you most and why ?

Visual representations help us to understand data quickly. The main functions of a chart are to display data and invite further exploration of a topic. Charts are used in situations where a simple table won't adequately demonstrate important relationships or patterns between data points[1].

Here are some of the most common types of charts:

-	Bar chart, Histogram

Bar charts are a good way to represent some quantity associated to qualitative (discrete) values of a certain variable (like months, age group, etc.). Alternatively, if the variable consists of continuous values (so, intervals), the corresponding chart used to represent statistical data is called histogram.

-	Pie chart, doughnut chart

Pie charts are a type of chart which is most suitable for representing frequencies. With a pie chart one can have an idea of the proportions between the quantity (or relative frequency, or also probability) associated to one value and the whole set. Pie charts are represented as circles, with slices of this circle representing the relative frequency of a specific value. Similar to the pie chart is the doughnut chart, which has the shape of a holed circle.

-	Waffle chart

A waffle chart shows progress towards a target or a completion percentage. Waffle Charts are a great way of visualizing data in relation to a whole, to highlight progress against a given threshold, or when dealing with populations too varied for pie charts. A lot of times, these are used as an alternative to the pie charts[2]. Waffle chart visualize quantities associated to a variable using squares, with each square representing one (or a certain amount of) statistical unit.

-	Line chart, curve chart

A line chart (aka line plot, line graph) uses points connected by line segments from left to right to demonstrate changes in value. The horizontal axis depicts a continuous progression, often that of time, while the vertical axis reports values for a metric of interest across that progression. Line charts are used for bivariate statistics. An alternative are curve charts[3].

-	Pareto chart

A Pareto chart is a type of chart that contains both bars and a line graph, where individual values are represented in descending order by bars, and the cumulative total is represented by the line. The left vertical axis is the frequency of occurrence, but it can alternatively represent cost or another important unit of measure. The right vertical axis is the cumulative percentage of the total number of occurrences, total cost, or total of the particular unit of measure[4].

-	Marimekko chart

It is a two-dimensional graph similar to a standard bar chart, with rectangular bars usually arranged in a vertical orientation. The vertical axis has a numerical scale (100% on a Marimekko Chart) and represents one of the quantitative variables. The horizontal axis can be either numerical or categorical. If it is numerical, each rectangle has a width proportional to the value of the second quantitative variable, a different color, and a legend that identifies it. If it is categorical, the width of each bar also indicates the value of the second quantitative variable.[5]

Probably the chart that impressed me the most is the Marimekko chart. Although they have some limitations (in fact they cannot be used for distribution, relationships, or trends over time analysis), they are very powerful in showing frequencies for a set of categories, making this kind of chart more powerful than bar charts and Pareto charts.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sources:

[1]https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/Charts_and_Diagrams.htm

[2]https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/r-waffle-chart/ 

[3]https://chartio.com/learn/charts/line-chart-complete-guide/

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bar_chart 

[4] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_chart

[5]https://towardsdatascience.com/mekko-charts-f38311c576e2

