---
layout: page
title: "4_A"
categories: applications
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
<b>4_A. Create a program - in both languages C# and VB.NET (and optionally in js) - to read data from a CSV file, and store it into suitably designed objects, for further processing. Compute mean and standard deviation and frequency distribution for at least one of the variable, and for one pair of variables.</b>

This program is composed by:

- a button "Get File", which allows the user to select a (csv) file
- a button "button1" which starts the computation of mean, standard deviation and distribution of the values in the specified file
- a richtextbox
- a textbox, where the file name is displayed

The program computes mean, standard deviation and distribution for three values, which are age, weight and height. Those values need to be provided with a csv file, where the for each line the first value corresponds to age, the second to height and the third to weight, plus the values must be divided by a semicolon and all the lines in the file must correspond to a sequence of values, and nothing else. A list is defined for each of the fields, along with a list of Intervals.

To represent the intervals instead we have a specific class, defined in this way:

{% highlight csharp %}
class Interval : IComparable<Interval>
{
    public double LowerEnd;
    public double UpperEnd;

    public bool ContainsValue(double v)
    {
        return v > this.LowerEnd && v <= this.UpperEnd;
    }

    public override string ToString()
    {
        return "(" + LowerEnd + "   " + UpperEnd + "]";
    }

    public int CompareTo(Interval other)
    {
        return Comparer<double>.Default.Compare(this.LowerEnd, other.LowerEnd);
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

When button1 is clicked, the first thing it does is to initialize the lists and fill them with the corresponding values (ages, heights, weights and intervals). Then, using the Knuth's formula, it computes the mean of all the ages. This mean is then used to compute the standard deviation.

{% highlight csharp %}
for (int i = 18; i < 88; i += 10)
{
    interval = new Interval();
    interval.LowerEnd = i;
    interval.UpperEnd = i + 10;
    ListOfAgeIntervals.Add(interval);
}

for (int i = 140; i < 220; i += 10)
{
    interval = new Interval();
    interval.LowerEnd = i;
    interval.UpperEnd = i + 10;
    ListOfHeightIntervals.Add(interval);
}

for (int i = 40; i < 150; i += 10)
{
    interval = new Interval();
    interval.LowerEnd = i;
    interval.UpperEnd = i + 10;
    ListOfWeightIntervals.Add(interval);
}

// fill lists of (single) values
using (var reader = new StreamReader(filename)) // read lines from file (WHICH MUST HAVE ONLY VALUES, NO FIELDS NAMES)
{
    
    while (!reader.EndOfStream)
    {
        var line = reader.ReadLine();
        var values = line.Split(';');

        Ages.Add(int.Parse(values[0]));
        Heights.Add(int.Parse(values[1]));
        Weights.Add(int.Parse(values[2]));
    }

}

total = Ages.Count();
richTextBox1.AppendText("Average age:" + Environment.NewLine + Environment.NewLine);

for (int i = 1; i <= total; i++) // calculate average
{
    avg = avg + (Ages[i - 1] - avg) / i;
}

for (int i = 0; i < Ages.Count; i++) // source: https://codingpointer.com/csharp-tutorial/standard-deviation
{
    deviation = Ages[i] - avg;
    sumsqr += deviation * deviation;
}
/* variance */
variance = sumsqr / Ages.Count;
stddev = Math.Sqrt(variance);
{% endhighlight %}

After this, there is the computation of the univariate distribution for the ages and the bivariate distribution for weights and heights.

In the univariate case, the program uses age values as keys for a dictionary representing the number of occurrences of each value. It counts the number of occurrences by checking if the value is stored in the dictionary. If it is, it increments its associated counter, otherwise it creates a new entry with the age as the key and 1 as the value.

In the bivariate case instead we don't deal with single values but rather with a couple of values, each of them corresponding to a statistical unit. So for practicality the function that calculates the bivariate distribution defines a list of tuples containing the values of weight and height for each statistical unit. Then, for each of these couples of values, we find the two corresponding intervals which they fall in and increment the count of the joint frequency, similarly to the way we did in the univariate case.

{% highlight csharp %}
for (int i = 0; i < Heights.Count; i++) // define list of couples
{
    weightHeightCouples.Add(new Tuple<int, int>(Weights[i], Heights[i]));
}
foreach (Tuple<int, int> t in weightHeightCouples)
{
    foreach (Interval wi in ListOfWeightIntervals) // find weight interval for t
    {
        if (wi.ContainsValue(t.Item1))
        {
            interval_weight = wi;
        }
    }
    foreach (Interval hi in ListOfHeightIntervals) // find height interval for t
    {
        if (hi.ContainsValue(t.Item2))
        {
            interval_height = hi;
        }
    }

    bivariateObs = new Tuple<Interval, Interval>(interval_weight, interval_height);
    
    if (FrequencyDistribution.ContainsKey(bivariateObs))
    {
        FrequencyDistribution[bivariateObs]++;
    }
    else
    {
        FrequencyDistribution.Add(bivariateObs, 1);
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Here I put the link to download the .zip file containing the code plus a video where I show the execution of the program:

[link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dXhmja0lK5kL-eE9iKFWFTf5KhdPT3zc/view?usp=sharing)