---
layout: page
title: "1_R"
categories: researches
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
As of today, during the age of Internet, where more and more work is concentrated around data, statistics has become a fundamental tool in many fields of study. Statistics could be defined as “the discipline that concerns the collection, organization, analysis, interpretation, and presentation of data”.[1] Regarding the concept of data, we can see it as “the term for facts that have been obtained and subsequently recorded, and, for statisticians, ‘data’ usually refers to quantitative data that are numbers”[2].

Statistics as a branch of mathematics has a very important correlation with probability theory, as they are both used in the analysis of stochastical phenomena, although in different ways. In fact, while probability theory is a deductive mathematical theory (which is concerned with “developing a hypothesis based on existing theory, and then designing a research strategy to test the hypothesis”[3]), statistics is an inductive science (which starts with the observations and theories are proposed towards the end of the research process as a result of observations[4])[5]. From the analysis of the data through the application of probability theory we get matemathical statistics, another branch of mathematics, which is concerned with the use of various data analysis tools to extrapolate information either through descriptive or inferential statistics[6].

But statistics is applied in so many fields, every day we hear about those numbers referred to many different topics. Here are some examples:

    1. Covid-19
After the outbreak of covid-19, we already knew the second and third waves of this pandemic, and these are spreading as per the predictions. Hence, you can estimate how statistics are useful for us.

    2. Government
The importance of statistics in government is utilized by making judgments about health, populations, education, and much more. It may help the government to check which vaccine is assertive for the corona novel virus for the citizens. What are the progressive reports after vaccination, whether vaccines are useful or not? For instance, the government can analyze in which areas vaccination is done and know where they need to target, or where cases are increasing day by day with the help of polls. The governments of different nations are using statistical data to vaccinate the people. As per the data, the availability of vaccines can also be monitored.

    3. Weather forecast
The computer used in weather forecasting is based on the set of statistics functions. All these statistics function to compare the weather condition with the pre-recorded seasons and conditions.

    4. Political campaigns
It helps the politicians to have an idea about how many chances they have to win an election in a particular area. Statistics also help the news channel to predict the winner of the election. It also helps the political parties to know how many candidates are in their support in a particular voting zone. In contrast, it helps the country to predict the future government. For example, you can see the statistics of how much election candidates have expended in different categories of Political campaigns.

    5. Insurance
The premium of insurance is based on the statistics. Insurance companies use the statistics that are collected from various homeowners, drivers, vehicle registration offices, and many more. They receive the data from all these resources and then decide the premium amount.[7]

Still today the debate on whether this science is a branch of math or if it is a distinct field of study is open. But first of all, can statistics be really considered a science?

Science is “any system of knowledge that is concerned with the physical world and its phenomena and that entails unbiased observations and systematic experimentation. In general, a science involves a pursuit of knowledge covering general truths or the operations of fundamental laws”[8]. According to this definitions, it seems that statistics falls perfectly into this category. It is indeed a science based on unbiased observation of phenomena, it involves a pursuit of knowledge through the analysis of data and the consequent gain of information. This has a lot to do with the scientific method. In fact, “In general, the scientific method includes:

1. A review of facts, theories, and proposals,

2. Formulation of a logical hypothesis that can be evaluated by experimental methods, and

3. Objective evaluation of the hypothesis on the basis of experimental results.

Statistics is defined as the science, pure and applied, of creating, developing, and applying techniques by which the uncertainty of inductive inferences may be evaluated.

Statistics enables a researcher to draw meaningful conclusions from masses of data.

Statistics is a tool applicable in scientific measurement.”[9]
[10]

Essentially therefore, statistics is a scientific approach to analyzing numerical data in order to enable us to maximize our interpretation, understanding and use. This means that statistics helps us turn data into information; that is, data that have been interpreted, understood and are useful to the recipient. Put formally, for your project, statistics is the systematic collection and analysis of numerical data, in order to investigate or discover relationships among phenomena so as to explain, predict and control their occurrence.[2]



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
References:

[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics
[2] https://www.briarcliffschools.org/uploaded/HS_files/BHS_Research/Why_You_Need_to_Use_Statistics_in_Your_Research.pdf (from the book “Dealing With Statistics: What You Need To Know” by Reva Berman Brown and Mark N. V. Saunders)
[3] https://research-methodology.net/research-methodology/research-approach/deductive-approach-2/
[4] https://research-methodology.net/research-methodology/research-approach/inductive-approach-2/
[5] https://www.eolss.net/Sample-Chapters/C02/E6-02-04.pdf (from the book “PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS – Vol. II - Foundations of Statistics - Reinhard Viertl”)
[6] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_statistics
[7] https://statanalytica.com/blog/uses-of-statistics/
[8] https://www.britannica.com/science/science
[9] https://www.ndsu.edu/faculty/horsley/Stat_rev.pdf
[10] https://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/science-fair/steps-of-the-scientific-method