---
layout: page
title: "2_R"
categories: researches
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
<b>2_R. Describe the most common configuration of data repositories in the real world and corporate environment. Concepts such as Operational or Transactional systems (OLTP), Data Warehouse DW, Data Marts, Analytical and statistical systems (OLAP), etc. Try to draw a conceptual picture of how all these components may work together and how the flow of data and information is processed to extract useful knowledge from raw data.</b>

The changes brought forth by internet-driven communication are driving businesses to become data-driven organizations.  Organizations that master how to collect and manipulate data to their advantage will triumph over their competitors. The sheer volume of data being collected by businesses today goes beyond what traditional relational databases can handle, giving rise to a series of different data repositories.

<b>Data Warehouses</b>

A data warehouse is a large data repository that aggregates data usually from multiple sources or segments of a business, without the data being necessarily related.  Usually, a data warehouse is a purpose-built relational database running on specialized hardware either on-premise or in the cloud.

<b>Data Marts</b>

A database, or collection of databases, designed to help managers make strategic decisions about their business. Whereas a data warehouse combines databases across an entire enterprise, data marts are usually smaller and focus on a particular subject or department. Some data marts, called dependent data marts, are subsets of larger data warehouses.

<b>Data Lakes</b>

A data lake is essentially a large data repository that accommodates vast data sets in its native format. Unlike data warehouses, a data lake can accommodate raw data and it stores the data as it is using a schema-less flat file architecture. In data lakes, each data object is assigned with a unique identifier or a key and is tagged with a set of metadata tags.

<b>OLTP</b>

OLTP, or online transactional processing, enables the real-time execution of large numbers of database transactions by large numbers of people, typically over the internet. Database transactions also remain as a record of the corresponding financial transaction. OLTP can also drive non-financial database exchanges, including password changes and text messages.

In OLTP, the common, defining characteristic of any database transaction is its atomicity (or indivisibility)—a transaction either succeeds as a whole or fails (or is canceled). It cannot remain in a pending or intermediate state.

<b>OLAP</b>

OLAP (for online analytical processing) is software for performing multidimensional analysis at high speeds on large volumes of data from a data warehouse, data mart, or some other unified, centralized data store.

<b>OLTP vs. OLAP</b>

The main difference between OLAP and OLTP is in the name: OLAP is analytical in nature, and OLTP is transactional.

OLTP is optimized for executing online database transactions. OLTP systems are designed for use by frontline workers (e.g., cashiers, bank tellers, part desk clerks) or for customer self-service applications (e.g., online banking, e-commerce, travel reservations).

OLAP, on the other hand, is optimized for conducting complex data analysis. OLAP systems are designed for use by data scientists, business analysts, and knowledge workers, and they support business intelligence (BI), data mining, and other decision support applications.

<b>How can all these components work together?</b>

Looking at the descriptions of all these data processing tools, we can distinguish three different roles:

-	Data aggregation (OLTP)
-	Data storage (or repository) (Data Warehouses, Data Lakes, Data Marts)
-	Data analytics (OLAP)

Data coming from any possible source, including those coming from OLTPs, can be aggregated into any sort of repository, although these differ in the way they are organized. Data Lakes are a much more flexible solution, suitable for any type of incoming data, and data warehouses can attain their data also from there, organizing them in a relational database fashion. Data marts are an even more refined type of data structure, since their content is specific to a certain subject. These data may come from any source, but usually they derive from data stored in data warehouses. From all those repositories OLAP systems gather data in order to elaborate them and extract useful informations.


Sources:

https://digitalguardian.com/blog/what-data-repository
https://stealthbits.com/blog/what-is-a-data-repository-and-what-is-it-used-for/
https://www.webopedia.com/definitions/data-mart/
https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/oltp
https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/olap
https://techgenix.com/data-lakes/


