---
layout: page
title: "7_R"
categories: researches
#permalink: /homeworks/researches/
---
<b>Explain the Bayes Theorem and its key role in statistical induction. Describe the different paradigs that can be found within statistical inference (such as"bayesian", "frequentist" \[Fisher, Neyman\]).</b>

Statistical inference is the process of assuming properties of a population from the examination of a sample of the same population. Knowing the distribution of a sample, we try to have an intuition of the distribution of the population from which this empirical data has been obtained based on some parameters like, for example, the mean, the standard deviation and others. Having a set of models representing a population and some empirical observations, the goal is to get, for each of those models, the probability that these results are obtained from a population represented by each one of these models. But how do we do this?

Each model gives us the probability of one or more events, so in this way we know how probable are the data we got assuming they are the result of the observation made on one of these models. In some models this probability could be higher, in others it could be lower, in others it could even be negligible. Intuitively one could think that if in one model the probability of an event is high while in another one this probability is much lower, the probability that this results came out from the observations made on the first one are much higher than the case where they came from the observations made on the second one.

To know the probability for each model given the empirical distribution we can rely on Bayes’ theorem. In fact this theorem depicts perfectly this situation where this probability is directly proportional to the probability of the empirical data with knowledge of the model from which we got them.

Inferencial statistics follows different paradigms. Those are the two most common ones:

-	Frequentist inference: Here probability is described as the limit of its relative frequency in many trials. This means that probability are obtained after repeating an experiment a certain number of times. Probabilities are treated as frequencies
-	Bayesian inference: The Bayesian calculus describes degrees of belief using the 'language' of probability. Constatations are made by assuming some a priori values of probability, and in general they are viewed as subjective conclusions

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sources:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_inference#Paradigms_for_inference

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frequentist_probability
